	In 2008, clam dredging boats and commercial fishing boats operated in Tah Sala Bay causing major destruction and deterioration of the marine ecosystems in the area.  Tens of thousands of family, local communities and government officials worked together to patroled, surveillanced and arrested 18 vessels (documented in Perd Pom TV show).
	
	In 2009, problems from clam dredging boats led to different stakeholders working together to find solutions to the problems by using distribution of power in each province following the local fisheries act and constitution.  By releasing the law called “Local Commandment”, which was successfully done in the first subdistrict administration organization in Thailand.  In this law, the subdistrict administration organization can have the power to surveillance, control and assist government officers to eliminate problems caused by commercial fishing boats (documented in Satarana TV show) resulting in renewal of coastal resources to rich and diverse biodiversity, the area was then nicknamed, “Golden Bay”.
	
	In 2010, Tah Sala was set to be the location for petroleum industry by the Office of National Economic and Social Development Board.  An 800 megawatt coal fire power plant had entered the area to prepare for construction, led to a strong movement to stop this plant from being built in the area.  The same network then declared Tha Sala to be a protected area and the network then expanded to “Tha Sala Birthplace Network”. 
	
	In 2011, a public forum “No Coal Fire Power Plant” with over the thousand people held hands surrounding the district, which was led by the head of 15 subdistricts, 10 subdistricts from Tha Salsa District itself and 5 from the surroundings.   The Board of Human Rights along with community leaders opened a stage to sign petition against the coal fire power plant, in total of 13,000 names signed and successfully pushed the Electric Generating Authority of Thailand out off the area.  
	
	In 2012, Tha Sala Small Scale Fisheries Association, Conservative Teacher Network, Tha Sala Birthplace Network, local communities and researchers have been continually collecting data since 2009 and tried to promote “Tha Sala Protected Area for Food” and have been widely accepted by the people of Tha Sala itself and other areas of the Southern of Thailand.
	This year, local government, academia and the local communities had long consulted process and joined hands together to create Tha Sala to be sustainable destination on its own under the cooperation and participation from all sectors.  With team work and acceptance from all parties, it led to protecting Tha Sala, which is fertile and developed with large university and cultural diversity.
	
	Golden Bay is a sea area for more than 35 kilometers long covering Sichon and Tha Sala District. Barren sea was the word used by dirty energy industry misleading to a false report to the public through academic reports and environmental impact assignment.  This was to allow the energy industry to succeed in developing coal fire power plant, oil rig and other heavy factories as an industrial estate in the area.  The word “barren sea” aggravated Tha Sala community; the people got up and fought back with a combination of researches and collected data to prove that Golden Bay is a rich sea.  They were all ignored.  Over a hundred species of fishes provide employment in the area for more than five thousand people from 11 coastal villages of the two districts with a turnover of wages up to 300 million baht per year.  Every evening and midnight of each day, more than one thousand fishing boats go out at sea to find food to nourish people for several decades through over 50 markets within the country and exports to Malaysia, China, Indonesia, Singapore, the United States and Europe.
	
	The lies from the energy industry pushed Tha Sala community to proof the overlapping of interest from the energy industry over food security of the community, reflecting the lack of a clear judgment of government policies.  Golden Bay is a rich marine resource pools which was recently made an example for everyone to see the importance marine resources management for the benefit of local communities and the country.  Apinan Chaowalit president of Tha Sala district administration said that the trespassing of commercial clam dredging boats destroyed the livelihood of local communities.  Some had to migrate to other areas for more than 20 years.  It took a long time to restore Golden Bay to be fertile and rich in biodiversity again.  The stability of local people and the sea began within the last five years under the local commandment for the coastal conservation and also by agreement with Suphon Tosen, President of Thasala Small Scale Fisheries Network, and Wirachat Chehlem, President Huasai Small Scale Fisheries Network.  Golden Bay cover the area of 4 districts which contributes to the livelihood of the fishermen, about 60 percent of living cost and survival of the family for many generations came from the sea altogether.
	
	The strong unity of the community supported Tha Sala as a fertile food production location. This proofed Tha Sala to be one of the most politically strong, people in area over five thousands strong were ready to stand up to protect their source of livelihood from dirty developments.  But the worries of Manit Hankar, who fished in the Golden Bay for more than 30 years, was still exist.  He said they all must realize the importance and seriously protect this sea. He saw the difference of the sea on the past ten years and now after the organization of the all local fisheries for serious conservation. Our heart is the sea was his strong words.  ArSin, his ten years old son who is just training to go out to sea and his wife also looked at each other as well to confirm the words of their leader of a family.  He reflected on having nothing from being looted of their sea by dirty energy industry in that area. If the people have no home, they can still move to another house but if the people do not have the sea, they cannot eat or survive.
	
	Golden Bay was the first area that the people fought to end all forms of dirty energy developments by pushing the boundaries of protected areas and declared the bay as a food supplies for their livelihoods.  The people themselves managed energy and food security on their own.  Although selfish and capitalist management might still destroy food and the plentiful of the Golden Bay in the future, the people are still going to go out fishing every day hoping the government and investors will get to eat enough fish and smarten up to truly know the meaning of the phrase "fish is life".  Because the people know that barren sea would take less time and money to restore than barren judgment by policy makers.